
## AI & ML

## Software Engineering
- [When AI writes almost all code, what happens to software engineering?](https://newsletter.pragmaticengineer.com/p/when-ai-writes-almost-all-code-what) — This is a good snapshot of the tech industry in Q1 2026 that includes a lot of excerpts from leading minds in tech and AI. The most important realization for me is that the number of AI naysayers seems to be dropping rapidly, and people that were previously less bullish on AI are seeing a lot more use cases. This has led to re-pricing of software more broadly in the market, but uncertainty about the future of tech is not unique to Wall Street.  As this essay show, even the brightest minds in tech don't have a firm grasp on this new technology, meaning there is a wide open space for disruption/innovation.

- [How to Build Good Software](https://knowledge.csc.gov.sg/ethos-issue-21/how-to-build-good-software/) — It is easy to think that the most important part of good software is the quality of the code that is produced. This article instead argues that the decider of good software "has less to do with specific engineering choices, and more to do with how development projects are managed." Since software should be a dynamic and evolving thing, the real value that a software engineering team brings is the collective knowledge of the problem that needs to be solved and the best way to approach it. This understanding is developed in many ways, through the use of other software tools and innovations, through rapid iteration, and the collection of engineers' individual experiences. The right decisions can lead to outsized returns, and that is why the quality of engineers will always be extremely important. Core to all of this is a deep understanding of the issue that the software product is trying to solve and this understanding should be used as a beacon throughout the entire development process which involves exploration and simplification/consolidation.

- [Expert Generalists](https://martinfowler.com/articles/expert-generalist.html) — In the software industry, more emphasis is put on deep technical skills than their ought to be. While these skills are still important, people that are curious and have a good grasp of the fundamentals of adjacent industries or functions outside of their team are often the ones that "drive features to completion." Many of these skills are hard to quantify and so interviews still consist of memorizing syntax and esoteric patterns, but the industry should soon shift to a screen for more deductive reasoning and decomposition skills. Fostering a culture of cross-collaboration at companies is much harder to do than say, but the article even recommends some workshops that can be useful for teams to try out. Being curious is hard and growth is challenging, but it is ultimately the collaborative and curious people that get the most done.

## Product & Design

## Startups & Business

## Economics & Finance

## Career & Leadership
- [Soft Skills Matter Now More Than Ever](https://hbr.org/2025/08/soft-skills-matter-now-more-than-ever-according-to-new-research?ab=HP-hero-for-you-1) — As AI continues to improve and replaces more and more lower-level tasks in industries like Software Engineering and Consulting, entry-level employees are increasingly going to need to think bigger picture, collaborate with others, and coordinate new and various systems. In the past, companies could get away with screening for leadership ability after fulfilling all of their entry-level positions, with the best and brightest rising to the top, but now they must make sure that even their early talent understands the business is able to lead small initiatives- even if just with AI workers working for them. We can already see this reflected in companies' increasing AI use, screening for talent with AI interest/skills, and reducing the number of new hires. In such a fast-moving landscape, the companies that succeed will be the ones that up-skill their current workforce in terms of AI and business literacy and screen for leadership talent from an early stage, increasing ownership throughout the company leading to more innovation and new ideas.

## Health & Fitness

## Books
- [48 Laws of Power](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_48_Laws_of_Power) — This book argues that everyone is always fighting for power. While I agree that social dynamics are more superficial and performative than we'd like to admit, I'm not sure if everyone is after "power" per se. We live in a world now with an unprecedented amount of individual freedom, so I see gaining power as one possible avenue to a fulfilling and successful life. That said many of the laws are useful regardless of whether your intentions are altruistic in nature or purely for power.

- [Deep Work](https://www.amazon.com/Deep-Work-Focused-Success-Distracted/dp/1455586692) — This book embodies a quote I heard a while back, "A good life is a simple life, not an easy one." When going throughout this book, I tried to imagine what kind of impact AI would have on this attention landscape that Cal Newport describes. On one hand, I see it accelerating attention fragmentation with different threads, endless sycophantic conversations, and AI-infused apps that optimize even better for attention. I also see an optimistic path for people that understand the concepts laid out in this book. If you use AI to "Drain the shallows" and take care of repetitive, low-impact tasks, it can free up time and mental energy for depth. That is what we should be pursuing.

- [Klara and the Sun](https://www.amazon.com/Klara-Sun-novel-Kazuo-Ishiguro/dp/059331817X) — Klara and the sun is a shining (get it) example of the human element in the AI debate. From the perspective of an intelligent artificial system, the robot learns that what makes human special is not necessarily something internal but their connection and meaning to others.

- [Chip Wars](https://www.amazon.com/Chip-War-Worlds-Critical-Technology/dp/1982172002) — This book provides a comprehensive history of the semiconductor industry from vacuum tube times to current day. It is hard to overstate the complexity of the IC industry from the chips themselves to the interconnected supply chains, but the book does a good job outlining the major players in the realm of chip making and why it is central to so many countries' political, military, and economic strategies. With the advent of AI, our reliance on computer chips and the vast network of companies/countries that produce them will only grow, so understanding the implications of news in the semiconductor industry provides a necessary backdrop for the global landscape as a whole. Key takeaways: 1) Interdependence is central to the chip industry and likely the only thing keeping many countries from warring with one another. 2) Only the top companies survive a recession, but it can lead to higher market share if the company invests rather than cutting back. 3) It takes both immense engineering prowess and business accumen to change the world with innovative technology.

- [Co-Intellignce: Living and Working with AI](https://www.amazon.com/Co-Intelligence-Living-Working-Ethan-Mollick/dp/059371671X) — This book provides a broad philosophy on working with AI and highlights the tact with which we need to approach working with LLMs. On one end, LLMs allow higher performance across the board on many tasks performed in consulting and software engineering roles, but if used incorrectly, LLMs can stunt development of analytical reasoning and writing skills. Overall, it is important to see AI as a creative partner and understand the current limitations while being open to the undoubted progress that AI will make.

- [Getting Things Done](https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/0143126563/ref=sr_1_1?crid=2FPLPT8HH5IUM&dib=eyJ2IjoiMSJ9.JPu08UYkU4zwl38D65fqtHs5WdjMvGXKvCCqQyacQBM3vQSVKj0m3Yi595ffsLQhHOUjW8PAV3gNB3NownPCrRw3hBV417aXMU8yiAockDAccS984bQkBTuElkS2z-apaW3OjFX8U-QmQBIv_nGyiiU2d4E-g9OQPOYO-8ecQoVmZc4Ebj64t2doARQmKlJu1xlIwEIrvj8oiSZeAtNj-Yb5ofDzbPu47IPGCney_2s.MaOrTjMA8nNFfpK4_4I8LlMvmQnObCg0qj8H0NVTAEY&dib_tag=se&keywords=getting+things+done+by+david+allan&qid=1761280673&s=books&sprefix=getting+%2Cstripbooks%2C112&sr=1-1) — This appeals to a computer science audience because it is extremely practical and contains step-by-step instructions needed to help plan your actions and improve your mood from the bottom up rather than trying to deductively "think yourself" into being productive and confident. Many people in this field are pragmatically minded, and this is a very logical way to approach life. Excited to learn more about how this philosophy and how it can apply to software engineers specifically (enhancements, automations, using AI, etc.)

- [The Undoing Project](https://www.amazon.com/Undoing-Project-Friendship-Changed-Minds/dp/0393254593) — It is hard to read academic psychology literature, so this was a great way to learn about some of the most ground-breaking research done on our brains through the lens of a story. The work done by Danny Kahneman and Amos Tversky is somewhat like watching an early sitcom, many of the punchlines have been replicated in years since and may seem like old news, but it is hard to overemphasize the importance of their work and one must be hyper-vigilant when understanding the faults of the human mind as they come so natural to us. This book reinforced my respect for data-driven decision making. It is also worth noting how important the partnership between Danny and Amos was and how key connections that make up for each other's losses can be key to success in life. It is still hard to internalize some of the key lessons in this book, but hopefully it will at some point make whoever reads it do a double-take when making a decision that has to do with economics, psychology, or statistics.

- [Three Body Problem](https://www.amazon.com/Three-Body-Problem-Cixin-Liu/dp/0765382032) — Fascinating book that combines existential science fiction topics with history, war, technology, and politics. Kind of hard to keep up with some of the super scientific and historical bits but the overall theme of corruption and humanity's reliance on faith in humanity is really interesting.

- [Shoe Dog](https://www.amazon.com/Shoe-Dog-Memoir-Creator-Nike/dp/1501135910) — One of the greatest entrepreneurial books of all time- takeaways included that one keen insight can turn into something much greater if you have the discipline and passion to follow the thread. Phil Knight took the lessons he learned as a runner and applied them directly to his business. The hardest part is starting, taking the risk, going for the run, etc., and mistakes are not just common along the way they are the norm. Knight was flawed in many ways, unsure of himself and not a natural leader on paper, and yet he proved that his shortcomings could be overcome with consistent effort and a clear vision for the future, relying on those around him when needed. Nothing great is ever accomplished alone, and even the biggest businesses were at one point built one phone call at a time.

## Misc

